---
layout: page
title: Frequently Asked Questions
description: Allow us to answer your questions about the Manor
featured_image: /assets/img/faq-banner.webp
---

## About Dane John Hill

### What is the Dane John Hill?

The Dane John Hill is a historic mound located in Canterbury, Kent, serving as a
prominent landmark that encapsulates centuries of British heritage. It features
a park, gardens, and a walking path that offers panoramic views of the city.

### Why is it called the Dane John Hill?

The name "Dane John" is derived from a corruption of the Norman word "Donjon,"
referring to a castle keep or mound. Over time, this term evolved into the name
we know today. The hill's name reflects its long history and the various
cultural influences it has undergone.

### How old is the Dane John Hill?

The exact age of the Dane John Hill is challenging to pinpoint due to the layers
of history it represents. However, it is believed to date back to at least the
Roman occupation of Britain, making it over a thousand years old. Subsequent
modifications and uses have added to its rich tapestry of history.

### Is it referred to as the Dungeon or Dane John?

Historically, it appears the correct term is Dane John, which over time
underwent various phonetic transformations, eventually becoming known as the
Dungeon among others. On this site, we use both terms with a specific intent:
"Dane John" typically refers to the contemporary park area, while "the Dungeon"
is used when discussing the historical manor grounds. This distinction helps
clarify the context and time period being addressed.

### Was the Dane John Hill always a public garden?

No, the Dane John Hill has undergone various transformations throughout its
history. Initially, it may have served defensive purposes during Roman times and
later medieval periods. It was transformed into a public garden in the late 18th
century, reflecting changing attitudes towards leisure and public spaces.

### Can visitors access the Dane John Hill?

Yes, the Dane John Hill is accessible to the public and offers a peaceful
retreat in the heart of Canterbury. Visitors can enjoy leisurely walks, picnics,
and the scenic views from the mound.

### Are there any events held at the Dane John Hill?

Yes, the Dane John Hill and the surrounding gardens host various events
throughout the year, including music concerts, festivals, and cultural
celebrations. These events bring the community together and add to the vibrant
atmosphere of the area.

### What can visitors see from the top of the Dane John Hill?

From the summit of the Dane John Hill, visitors are treated to sweeping views of
Canterbury's historic cityscape, including the Cathedral, medieval walls, and
beyond. It's a perfect spot for photography and taking in the beauty of the
city.

### Is there any significance to the layout of the gardens?

The layout of the Dane John Gardens is designed to offer both aesthetic beauty
and a tranquil space for relaxation. The gardens feature carefully curated
plantings, walking paths, and historic elements that pay homage to the site's
past, blending natural beauty with historical significance.

### How do I get in touch regarding the park?

For inquiries about the park, please visit the Kent County Council's [Explore
Kent website](https://explorekent.org/activities/dane-john-gardens/).

## About the Manor of the Dungeon

### What is the Manor of the Dungeon?

The Manor of the Dungeon, also known historically as the Manor of Dane John,
refers to a historic estate located in Canterbury, Kent. Unlike the adjacent
Dane John Hill and park, the manor represents a specific parcel of land with a
rich history of ownership, usage, and significance within the broader urban and
rural landscape of Canterbury.

### How old is the Manor of the Dungeon?

The exact age of the Manor of the Dungeon is difficult to determine due to the
complex layers of history in Canterbury. However, references to the manor date
back to the medieval period, making it an integral part of Canterbury's
historical tapestry for several centuries.

### Who owned the Manor of the Dungeon?

Ownership of the Manor of the Dungeon has changed hands numerous times
throughout history. Initially, it was likely controlled by local nobility or the
church. In later years, it came into the possession of various individuals and
families, contributing to its rich historical narrative.

### Was the Manor of the Dungeon ever fortified?

While there is no concrete evidence to suggest that the Manor of the Dungeon
itself was fortified, its proximity to Canterbury's medieval defenses and its
strategic significance might imply some level of fortification or defensive use
in turbulent times. However, most historical records focus on the manor as an
estate rather than a fortified stronghold.

### What was the Manor of the Dungeon used for?

Over the centuries, the Manor of the Dungeon likely served multiple purposes,
including residential use by its owners, agricultural activities, and possibly
as a site for administrative or legal proceedings related to the estate or the
wider community.

### Are there any notable historical events associated with the Manor of the Dungeon?

Specific events tied directly to the Manor of the Dungeon are not widely
documented. However, given its location in Canterbury and its long history, it
undoubtedly witnessed or was adjacent to significant historical developments in
the city, including periods of conflict, change in governance, and social
evolution.

### Can visitors explore the Manor of the Dungeon today?

The Manor of the Dungeon itself might not be accessible to the public as a
distinct site separate from the Dane John Hill and park. Any remaining
structures or land associated with the manor are likely private or have been
integrated into the urban development of Canterbury. Visitors interested in the
area's history are encouraged to explore the Dane John Gardens and seek
information from local historical societies or archives for more details about
the manor.

### Where can I find more information about the history of the Manor of the Dungeon?

For those interested in delving deeper into the history of the Manor of the
Dungeon, Canterbury's local history archives, historical societies, and museums
are excellent resources. They offer access to documents, maps, and expert
knowledge about Canterbury's past, including detailed information about its many
historic estates.

## About the Lord of the Dungeon

### Who currently holds the title of Lord of the Manor of the Dungeon?

The title is held by James P. Howard, II. Beyond my professional life as a
mathematician and statistician in Maryland, I have a deep-seated passion for
history, linguistics, writing, and a broad spectrum of learning. This blend of
interests fuels my dedication to preserving and exploring the rich narrative of
the Manor of the Dungeon.

### Is the acquisition of this title legitimate?

The process of acquiring such titles can sometimes be dubious. In my case, the
transaction was indeed questionable, as the seller did not legitimately own the
right to sell the title of "Lord of the Dungeon." This lack of authenticity is
not uncommon in transactions involving feudal lordships and baronies.

### What motivated you to purchase the title despite its dubious nature?

The unique and compelling nature of the title "Lord of the Dungeon" was the
primary motivator. The allure of such an intriguing title outweighed concerns
about its authenticity.

### Who truly holds the title to the Manor of the Dungeon?

Currently, the true ownership of the title is obscured by history and remains
unresolved.

### Are people required to refer to you as 'Lord' in light of this title?

No, the title is not formally recognized as mine, thus there is no requirement
for such address.

### If the title were officially yours, would people need to address you as 'Lord'?

Even if the title were legitimately mine, it wouldn't be necessary to address me
as 'Lord,' as I hold other titles that would take precedence in formal address.

### Is there a coat of arms associated with this title?

It's important to understand that coats of arms are granted to individuals, not
to titles such as manors or baronies. Historically, a coat of arms is a unique
heraldic design on a shield or escutcheon or on a surcoat or tabard used to
cover and protect armour and to identify the wearer. Thus, while a title like
"Lord of the Dungeon" may carry historical significance and invoke a sense of
lineage or heritage, it does not inherently come with a coat of arms. Any coat
of arms associated with previous holders of the title would belong personally to
them or their direct descendants, in accordance with heraldic laws and
traditions, rather than to the title itself.

### How can I reach James Howard, Lord of the Dungeon?

For correspondence with James Howard, kindly proceed to [his contact
page](https://jameshoward.us/contact-me/).

## Miscellaneous

### What inspired the creation of this website?

Recognizing the somewhat unconventional nature of acquiring the title, I was
motivated to leverage this opportunity for a greater good. The decision to
purchase came hand-in-hand with a vision to contribute meaningfully to the
manor's legacy. This website embodies that vision, serving as a platform to
celebrate its history, unravel its mysteries, and engage with others who share a
fascination for the past.

### Is this for real?

It's as real as anything else out there.
