---
layout: page
title: Roman Origins of the Dungeon
subtitle: The Prehistory of Dane John Hill
featured_image: /assets/img/roman-dungeon.webp
---

Dane John Park in Canterbury, known initially as the Dungeon, has a
history that dates back to ancient Roman times. This siteâ€™s story begins
in the first century AD when the Romans established Durovernum
Cantiacorum (modern-day Canterbury) as a vital settlement in their newly
conquered province of Britannia. Recognizing the strategic importance of
this location, the Romans constructed substantial fortifications to
defend the town, laying the groundwork for what would become a
historically significant site.

<div class="item col-12 col-sm-6 col-md-6 col-lg-3 pull-right px-4">
  <a href="{{ '/archives/plan-of-durovernum' | relative_url }}" class="sidebar-link">
    <div class="card">
      <div class="card-head text-center">
        <img src="{{ '/assets/archives/plan-of-durovernum.webp' | relative_url }}" width="95%" />
      </div>
      <div class="card-body text-center"><h6>Plan of Durovernum</h6></div>
    </div>
  </a>
</div>

Around AD 43, the Romans founded _[Durovernum
Cantiacorum](https://www.roman-britain.co.uk/places/durovernum/)_,
strategically positioning it at the crossroads of several major routes.
This made the town a crucial hub for trade and military operations. The
Romans built a series of defensive structures to protect this vital
settlement, including walls, gates, and possibly a fort or earthworks.
These fortifications were designed to safeguard the town from potential
threats and to maintain Roman control over the region.

Archaeological evidence indicates that the Romans constructed
significant defensive works in Canterbury, including a large mound and
surrounding earthworks. These structures were typical of Roman military
engineering, characterized by their robustness and strategic placement.
The defensive mound, a vital site feature, likely served as a lookout
point and a base for additional fortifications. This Roman fortification
laid the foundation for the site's enduring strategic importance.
Remnants of Roman walls and other infrastructure elements have been
uncovered in Canterbury, providing a glimpse into the sophisticated
engineering practices of the Romans.  The Decline of Roman Britain

As the Roman Empire began to decline in the early 5th century, so did
its control over Britannia. Roman legions withdrew from the province,
leaving behind their forts and infrastructure. Despite the departure of
Roman forces, the defensive structures they built in Canterbury
continued to influence the town's development. The fortifications
remained a prominent feature of the landscape, providing a base for
future defensive efforts by subsequent occupants. The enduring presence
of these structures is a testament to the lasting impact of Roman
engineering.

Following the Roman withdrawal, the Anglo-Saxons took over the region
and repurposed many existing Roman structures. While specific details
about this period are sparse, it is clear that the Anglo-Saxons
recognized the strategic value of the Roman fortifications and
incorporated them into their defensive strategies. This period of
transition saw the blending of Roman and Anglo-Saxon architectural
styles and defensive techniques.

During the medieval period, the Normans recognized the strategic value
of the existing Roman fortifications. The Normans, known for their
military prowess and architectural innovations, incorporated the Roman
earthworks into their defensive plans. They constructed substantial new
fortifications on the site, including creating a large mound, which
became a central feature of the fortified area. This mound, now called
the Dungeon, was a critical component of Canterbury's defenses during
this period. The Normans' ability to adapt and enhance the Roman
structures ensured that the site remained a formidable defensive
stronghold.
